1.Which of the following statements most accurately reflects
a major difference between Arab expansion in the seventh
century and Viking expansion in the ninth century?
A. Arab expansion relied most heavily on diplomacy, while
Viking expansion relied most heavily on military might.
B. Viking expansion tended to occur in areas with few large
urban centers, while the Arab expansion occurred in areas
with comparatively large urban centers. *(correct answer)*
C. Arab expansion was financed by religious tithing, while
Viking expansion was financed by profit from the silk trade.
D. Viking expansion was limited to Ireland, Scotland, Iceland,
and Greenland, while Arab expansion was limited to the
Arabian Peninsula and Persia.
E. Arab expansion relied heavily on the technology of the
cannon, while Viking expansion relied heavily on dragon
boats.

2.Which of the following is true of commerce in the Indian
Ocean during the time period 600-1450 C.E.?
A. Chinese merchants dominated the trade routes of the
Indian Ocean.
B. There was very little commercial activity in the Indian
Ocean.
C. Merchants from Europe dominated the trade routes of
the Indian Ocean.
D. Following the rise of the Mongols during the thirteenth
century, the volume of Indian Ocean commerce fell
sharply.
E. Indian Ocean commerce flourished and was
conducted by a mixture of Asian, Middle Eastern, and
East African merchants. *(correct answer)*

3.Which of the following lists three places Ibn
Battuta, the fourteenth-century Muslim
traveler, visited?
A. The Arabian Peninsula, Iraq, and Japan
B. The Arabian Peninsula, France, and
India
C. India, Mali, and Persia *(Correct Answer)*
D. India, Persia, and Poland
E. England, Iraq, and Mali

4.Which of the following had the greatest
manufacturing capacity during the time
period 600 to 1450 C.E.?
A. Japan
B. India
C. China *(Correct Answer)*
D. Western Europe
E. Russia

5.The term “samurai” describes men in feudal
Japan who were most like the men in feudal
Europe known as:
A. Lords of the manor
B. Catholic bishops
C. Serfs
D. Knights *(Correct Answer)*
E. Merchants

6.In the period between 600 and 1450, which
of the following were two occupations
pursued by large numbers of African and
European women?
A. Midwife and healer *(Correct Answer)*
B. Military leader and farmer
C. Scribe and tax collector
D. Long-distance trader and merchant
E. Metalworker and textile manufacturer

7. Trade spurred the introduction of both Islam
and Hinduism to what is now called:
A. Japan
B. Brazil
C. Pakistan
D. Indonesia *(correct answer)*
E. Saudi Arabia

8. Renaissance Italy and the Islamic Middle East
after the decline of the Abbasid Empire in the midtenth
century are important examples of which of
the following?
A. Political unity and cultural creativity
B. Political fragmentation and cultural creativity *(correct answer)*
C. Political unity and the decline of religion
D. Political fragmentation and the decline of
religion
E. Political unity and the rise of secularism

9. Which of the following statements about the
Mongol Empire of the thirteenth century is true?
A. The invasion of Japan was attempted but was
unsuccessful *(correct answer)*
B. The number of Buddhist and Muslims in Asia
dropped significantly as a result of Mongol
persecution
C. In China the Mongols eliminated the Chinese
scholar-official class
D. The Mongols conquered Constantinople
E. Ibn Battuta’s writings describe in detail life in
the court of Genghis Khan.

10. Which of the following was a common
feature of most Asian and European
philosophies during the period 600 to 1450
C.E.?
A. A close association with religion *(correct answer)*
B. Emphasis on experimental science
C. Reliance on ideas of individual freedom
D. Substantial scholarly exchange of ideas
among all world cultures
E. Wide availability of printed books

CREDIT TO :: https://d3jc3ahdjad7x7.cloudfront.net/PUNzyqd8IO7DtDQO9r1XRx470EpOtLruhYDIRcWDUPX3sqDu.pdf
