1. The first successful revolution in the
Caribbean and South America was
launched in:
a) Haiti *(Correct Answer)*
b) Argentina
c) Cuba
d) Colombia
e) Jamaica

2. In the nineteenth century, women’s use
of bound feet (China), white face paint
(Japan), and corsets (Western Europe)
are examples of which of the following?
a) Practices that inhibit female activities *(Correct Answer)*
b) The beauty of middle-class women
c) Fashions that spread worldwide
d) The middle class’ setting the fashion for
women
e) Women’s participation in the workforce

3. “Extraterritoriality” can best be described
as which of the following?
a) Exemption of foreigners from the laws of
the country in which they live *(Correct Answer)*
b) Expansion of a country’s international
borders to natural boundaries.
c) Extension of dual citizenship to
immigrants
d) Acquisition of new colonies or territories
e) Establishment of a government in exile.

4. Which of the following best explains why
Japan was more successful than China in
resisting imperialist encroachments in the
nineteenth century?
a) Japan’s manipulation of the rivalries among
western governments
b) The introduction of democracy by the Meiji
Restoration
c) The willingness of Japan’s elite to sponsor
reform *(Correct Answer)*
d) Lack of interest in Japanese markets
e) Abundant natural resources 

5. Which of the following facilitated European
expansion in Asia in the nineteenth century?
a) The popularity of democratic values among
Asians
b) A general easing of tensions and cooperative
expeditions among European powers.
c) Europe’s development of new military
technologies *(Correct Answer)*
d) Asians’ lack of resistance to European diseases
e) Europe’s ability to send numerically superior
armies to Asia

6. Which of the following describes the major
impact of the introduction of coffee growing in
places like Kenya and El Salvador after 1880?
a) The end of taxes paid to the government
b) The weakening of the European colonial
military and landowning elite
c) Access to cheaper food for Africans and Latin
Americans
d) Increased control over the land by Africans
and Latin Americans
e) Greater dependence on foreign markets by
Africans and Latin Americans *(Correct Answer)*

7. Which of the following is an accurate description of
relations between European states and the Ottoman
Empire in the period 1815 to 1914?
a) The Ottomans were expanding at the expense of
Russia, England and France
b) Russian, English and French expansion came at the
expense of the Ottomans. *(Correct Answer)*
c) The Ottomans, in alliance with the Russians, English
and French, sought to impede German unification.
d) The Ottomans supported nationalism in the Balkans to
destabilize Europe.
e) The Ottomans and the French cooperated in
colonizing North Africa.

8. Which of the following is true of both Russia
and Japan by 1914?
a) Both were characterized by a high degree of
ethnic homogeneity.
b) Both had effective democratic institutions that
restrained the power of the monarchs.
c) Both had low rates of literacy
d) Marxism had become a strong influence
among urban workers in both countries.
e) Rapid, state-sponsored industrialization had
occurred in both countries. *(Correct Answer)*

9. During the nineteenth century, Asian and
African rulers usually desired transfer of
which of the following western
technologies?
a) Medicines
b) Weapons *(Correct Answer)* 
c) Navigational instruments
d) Textile manufacturing equipment
e) Chemical fertilizers

10. In the nineteenth century, the Ottoman
and Austro-Hungarian empires were two
examples of:
a) Nationalistic empires
b) Republican empires
c) Colonial empires
d) Multi-national empires *(Correct Answer)* 
e) Nation-states

CREDIT :: https://d3jc3ahdjad7x7.cloudfront.net/PWoOO5b7KpMrSsbiBATx9OjGceifsn7n0zj3jDuUnbFz26iC.pdf
